Date | Progress
--- | ---
Monday <br> 8-1 | First sketch made, Proposal made. <br> Design decisions (ideas): <br> - interactive charts: one in which data for one particular weather station is shown (line/bar chart) and one in which this weatherstation is compared to others (bar chart). <br> - color coded map of the Netherlands, in which all municipalities are present (bases on their distance to the closest weather station. <br> - textboxes in which users can enter details about their house for calculation purposes. 
Tuesday <br> 9-1 | Made several sketches to highlight every feature of the first main sketch, eventually made a new main design sketch based on feedback, with changed or improved features. <br> Design decisions (ideas): <br> - Put more focus on the house features of the user, less on how weather stations compare to eachother. This is more interesting for the user. <br> - Only one line/bar chart, in which monthly/annual data for one particular weather station are shown, as well as how much enery can be produced in a single day or month in the area where the users house stands, bases on the features of the house. <br> - Addition of a radar plot to show how well every house feature scores. <br> - Addition of radial progress bars to show how much potential a particular month has compares to the most sufficient month of the year for solar energy. 
Wednesday <br> 10-1 | Improved sketch with more details (with practical and technical functionality of every asset explained in seperate images). Made design document. <br> Design decisions (ideas): <br> - Add tooltips where these could clarify data and results. <br> - Dropdown menus for all house variables selection for the sake of user friendliness, as well as to prevent misuse (like entering negative of overly large values) and make a more consice scoring system for the radar plot.
Thrusday <br> 11-1 | First stand-up, feedback gotten and discussed new options, prepared datasets, made prototype. <br> Design decisions (ideas): <br>- radial progress bar: shows one global score of a particular house (based on the averages of the scores of each of its attributes), addition of interactivity (tooltip on hover) <br> - radarplot: &#39;ghost&#39; plot: how would changes to the attributes of a house influence the results on the plot? USer can switch between the highlighting of either radar plots.
Friday <br> 12-1 | First presentation, feedback gotten: <br> - choose between either a line chart or a bar chart, instead of both <br> - checkboxes instead of radio buttons in the charts (as to be able to show grouped lines/bars) <br> - possible later addition of Google Maps API to pick a location more specifically.
Monday <br> 15-1 | Removed insufficient/unnecessary data from datasetss. Added dataset 'percentages' to be able to get the efficiency of a solar panel at every roof angle/orientation combination. Wrote required functions to be able to use all user inputs from the dropdown menus in Javascript and update variable value. Implemented most functions to determine the results (energy production, profit, investment payback period). By doing all of the required maths first, it will be certain that the visualizations will show relevant data from the start
Tuesday <br> 16-1 | Implemented nearly all formulas, with results that are displayed on screen and update with every changed input. User friendliness has been improved by being able to select a weather station on the dotted map. These and other inputs are now also shown in their textbox when they are picked from their own dropdown menus. Also added a placeholder slider in which months/years will be selectable to specify which months from the KNMI datasets are to be obtained for data.
Wednesday <br> 17-1 | Added functionality to the slider, so that it console logs data from the selected weather station at the currently selected month. Added the basis for the line chart.
Thursday <br> 18-1 | Made an alpha version, containing most of assets for the visualizations to be shown in. <br> - The map is interactive and allows users to change location by clicking on any of the dots. Changing the location with the dropdown menu will highlight the corresponding dot on the map. <br> - All other user inputs are also working, and are shown inside a their text box for clear usability. <br> - The results, though not entirely accurate yet (using placeholder temperature/radiation) do change upon changing several of the dropdown menu options. <br> - Early version of the radar plot, which shows a general image of how house details will be ranked (currently based on rough scores). <br> After picking a location, moving the slider at the bottom will console log the correct data for that weather station during that month (to be used to plot the line chart).
Friday <br> 19-1 | Started making the radial progress bars to be able to show where every asset is supposed to be, for presentation. Received useful feedback. Ideas/changes: <br> - increase line chart height, decrease button/dropdown (and probably map) sizes. This is because the chart is currently really flat and overall too cramped, and the buttons are too large regardless. <br> - only show one plot on the radar chart at a time, i.e. removing current plot and transition into the new one when inputs are altered. This adds more clarity, while still clearly showing what difference it makes when a certain input is altered. <br> - Make every radial progress bar be relevant to the number it surrounds. This is not only more intuitive to the user, but also means that not every bar will be the same anymore (like they would be if, for example, they all showed the same average house score). This also means that not every one of the three results might get its own radial progress bar, since for instance 'payback period' isn't something that can be well measured in such a visual way (it is always the same regardless of month).
Monday <br> 22-1 | Implemented most of the line chart functionality (working with month slider, temperature/radiation switch, basic crosshair). Resized the map and buttons to make more room for a now slightly bigger line chart.
Tuesday <br> 23-1 | Line chart now nearly completed, but already fully interactive (changes data when weather station is changed, shows correct data on changing slider or temperature/radiation switches, crosshairs that show x/y data on mouse hover). Added radar chart which can take custom values based on user inputs as data input. Once the transition functionality and correct tooltips are added the radar chart will be done.
Wednesday <br> 24-1 | - cleaned up weather station names (only first letter in uppercase, removed underscores). <br> - montly/yearly temperature/radiation data for calculation is now obtained from the json. Changing weather station or month will update this data and recalculate the results. <br> - radar chart automatically updates after every user input change. <br> - radial progress bar now scales, and is colored, based on the overall score of the users house (score is based on the average scores of the individual characteristics). Alterations in house characteristics automatically update the radial progress bar.
Thursday <br> 25-1 | Beta version: <br> - all required elements are present. Added interactive piechart which can also be used to change the month. <br> - added tooltips where necessary, which help to clarify names and results in a concise way. <br> - changed radio buttons to check boxes, so that users have the option to display both temperature and radiation lines at the same time, rather than one of them at a time. This way the correlations between the two values on a day are clearer. For this a second y-axis has been added. <br> - line chart crosshairs now show daily values for production and profit.
Friday <br> 26-1 | Beta demo presentation, expanded to-do list based on feedback. The main subjects on the list are: <br> - resizing some parts of the page (line chart bigger, circular charts and button menus smaller) <br> - improving line chart labels (more readable colors, thinner letters, different data axis format display, adding y-axis units at the axes) <br> - improving pie chart styling <br> - refining house aspect scores <br> - stating sources in seperate tab or main information paragraph <br> - bugfixes
Monday <br> 29-1 | Bugfixes, finished some tasks on to-do list: <br> - results are now calculated (and displayed on the line chart) correctly. <br> - pie chart slices now get properly redistributed on the circle when results change. <br> - expanded information section to include a tab containing data source links. <br> - roof angle score now changes based on which month is selected. <br> - darker line chart colors for better readability. <br> - line chart x-axis text formatted more concisely.
